I have a question about all of us, everywhere seeming to be so busy, we don't have so much
time for practice or study, most of us. So it's a question about study. One way to put
it is, what is the minimal amount of study we have to do for Dzogchen practice to start
well and stay on track? Another way to say that is, what are the essential intellectual
points that we really need to have clear in our minds for our meditation to go well?
And generally, studying is really important. And what is called in the Buddha teaching?
Studying is important. Studying is the study of the Buddha teaching. Those are really important
because that's what we like to practice. So therefore, to know these things, so far, study
is important. And I will say, studying also in the context of the like, such as Suttara
and Vaidyayana. Studying on the Suttara and the Suttara, studying on the Vaidyayana teachings.
And the Dzogchen is Vaidyayana. So therefore, these three, kind of two things is really
important. Suttara level, then Adien Hinayana and Suttara Mahayana, Suttara, a little bit
of study. And those are like, then, such as those, his only, the new room which is teaching,
three hours, I had his last letter into, those really gives about all those teaching and
including Vaidyayana teaching. So I will say that. And then for us also, studying, such
as guide, in the way of the lives of the body of Suttara, you know, those are very wonderful.
I mean, those are the essential practice, not just wonderful. They are really so important.
So, study level, then, in the Vaidyayana teachings, there are so many books now, but some, the
Lunkimba's books, all the you know what it's teaching, those are quite awesome. All the
great masters, the Yangmukungrung teaching, which is known as the tree, knowledge of trade,
which is a very big, even though it's kind of like, Yangmukungrung himself is very, very
big in practitioners or big in students, those who like to study, they don't have time to
go, big things, but actually it's really big. So kind of some of those really will open
the door. Or then, Mumarung, which is what's called the knowledge, guide to knowledge,
guide to knowledge. Those are, I mean, those are just, I'm not saying very good, they are,
that's also really good. In that Vaidyayana teaching, this Lunkimba's teaching, and I don't
translate that, but also, this, I mean, all there's so many, so really, as many as you
can do that is good, good as many. But also, that's according to your time, but read and
then, and then also, I would say really, if you have time, also read some life story of
those great masters, it's also very inspiring. Really, we saw how great the teachers, they are,
and yet, how they are humble and simple, and how dedicated, how their devotions, even their highest
realization, yet they are like full of the relations, full of the devotions, full of body,
really, just that, resource and simple and humble. Those are very kind of appealing,
and for the practice, that's really good. So, they read a few times, every time, those great
masters' life stories, which is really good. And then, for the practice, for the meditations,
then, I think, to starting things, I think, always in the teaching set, always that about how the
teaching comes, and then, let it be starting about the pose I was called. In the Tibetan,
ground, path, and the result. Let it be kind of knowledge on ground,
and the path, and the result. And then, ground, starting about ground. What is ground? Ground is,
again, metaphor, metaphor, but ground is what? But usually in samsara, samsara, ground is best
by everything. So, therefore, in the realization, where is best? And the starting of that best,
best. And then, starting about the path. We need to come to the path, and then, what they divide as
will, meditation, and conduct. Again, everybody started with what means will. What means
meditation, or practices. What means, or what is about the conduct. Start a little bit that,
that as, and as a kind of a need it. And then, result. I mean, you don't need to start it,
because those are all cause, then result will come. Those are the cause. There's nothing really
have to result. Start it too much, it is all. But also result, you can start what that,
what that will bring the result, or the fruit. So, if you're starting kind of a little bit those,
those things, or those like teaching that explained already that, and you heard that
many times, maybe reactivating in our knowledge as much as you can, then those are known as
that study, which is study is really good. But when also starting in a new my teaching,
it's getting what they should have said many times. New my school, we don't make a big separation
between starting the practice and cooperating. What are you starting? You practice it? What
you are practicing? Also you are learning that they kind of trivial out both, call it together,
and that is really kind of keep that scope of the vision, and then practice.
Okay, thank you. Then we start.